---
published: true
title: Prose.io
layout: post
---
For desktop Jekyll content editing, I've mostly chosen [prose.io](http://prose.io/), falling back on github.com itself when necessary. Prose is really quite wonderful, but lacks several features that seem obvious to me. I hope to get around to hosting my own forked prose.io, so that I can implement these features, most of which are very simple. Hope, phase 2, I'll pull-request those features to the real prose.io. Unfortunately, the real prose.io doesn't really appear to maintained much.

Prose.io on github: [prose/prose - JavaScript](https://github.com/prose/prose)

Some problems/shortcomings I see:

- Chrome's spell-check ignores text in the editor. 
- Need an "edit" button when reading the post. Maybe the visibility of this button can be restricted to users with write-access to the source, but that restriction is not necessary.
- Better "breadcrumb" links when editing a post. I'd like to easily get back to the parent folder.
- "Raw" view. I'd like to have an edit-able raw view of the file, including any front matter.
- Front matter visibility. Front matter fields like `published` and `title` are not available for editing once a saved post is reopened.
- Prose lets you navigate away from the editor after changes are made, without asking for verification.
- Prose should auto-insert a `-` or `N.` on a new line after pressing enter while on an existing `ul` or `ol` list.
- Should have a hotkey for switching between edit and preview modes. Hotkey for saving is already set as `ctrl-s`.
- Can't rename files.

## Alternatives to Prose.io

- [Content Editor](https://content-editor.surge.sh/), which is a raw content editor. I like that. It's simpler to use, less distracting than prose.io.
- [The Cloud CMS for Jekyll | CloudCannon](http://cloudcannon.com/), which costs between $25 and $75 per user per month. Not worth that cost for our purposes.

